Diligence means taking responsibility for how AI is used and what happens with its output.
The model may generate the material, but the user still owns the decision to rely on it, share it, execute it, or place it in someone else’s path.
Start with an audit trail.
Record the goal, important inputs, permissions, checks, and final human decision.
For sensitive work, also track data handling, rights, attribution, and who approved the consequential step.
Memory is not a control system.
Use a permission ladder.
Reading and drafting are usually easier to reverse.
Editing shared data, sending messages, publishing content, spending money, or deleting records creates larger consequences.
The authority granted to AI should rise only with stronger evidence and explicit gates.
Define stop conditions before execution.
The agent should pause when a required fact is missing, a permission changes, a cost crosses the limit, a test fails, or the task expands beyond the original scope.
A good stop is a sign of control, not a failure of autonomy.
Consider publishing a video.
Rendering a local draft can run automatically.
Public release requires verified media, metadata, visibility, and channel placement.
A protected declaration or final platform confirmation stays with the human because it carries identity and accountability.
The common failure is mistaking tool success for outcome success.
An upload request can return successfully while the video is private, missing its thumbnail, or outside the intended playlist.
Diligence verifies the real-world state after the action.
First, keep a record of permissions, checks, and the final decision.
Second, match AI authority to reversibility and consequence.
Third, verify the outcome after the tool reports success.